Update diagram generation docs (#39)
anz-bank/sysl-website: docs/cmd-sd.md

sidebar_label: Sequence Diagram
---

:::info
We are currently in the process of migrating from PlantUML to Mermaid for our diagram generation. This will remove the external dependency on PlantUML and offer a better user experience. Diagram generation with mermaid is currently supported for integration diagrams and sequence diagrams only. For more details, check out [sysl diagram](cmd-diagram)
:::

:::info
This command requires the SYSL_PLANTUML environment variable to be set or passed in as a flag. Follow the instructions [here](plantuml.md) for more details
:::
---

`sysl sd` lets you generate a sequence diagram originating from a single endpoint.

![Sequence diagram](/img/sysl/seq-diagram-puml.png)

## Usage

`usage: sysl sd [<flags>] <MODULE>...`

## Output Formats

The output file format can be specified via the extension passed into the -o flag.
Valid formats include .svg, .png, .uml, .puml, .plantuml, .html or .link

## Required Flags

> - `-s, --endpoint=ENDPOINT ...`Include endpoint in sequence diagram
> - `-a, --app=APP ...`Include all endpoints for app in sequence diagram (currently only works with
>   templated --output). Use SYSL_SD_FILTERS env (a comma-list of shell globs) to limit
>   the diagrams generated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-s, --endpoint=ENDPOINT ...` Include endpoint in sequence diagram
- `-a, --app=APP ...` Include all endpoints for app in sequence diagram (currently only works with templated `--output`). Use `SYSL_SD_FILTERS` environment variable (a comma-list of shell globs) to limit the diagrams generated.
```

- `-p, --plantuml=PLANTUML`base url of PlantUML server (default: SYSL_PLANTUML or http://localhost:8080/plantuml
  see http://plantuml.com/server.html#install for more info)
- `-o, --output="%(epname).png"`output file (default: %(epname).png)
- `-b, --blackbox=BLACKBOX ...`Input blackboxes in the format App <- Endpoint=Some description, repeat '-b App <-
  Endpoint=Some description' to set multiple blackboxes
- `-g, --groupby=GROUPBY`Enter the groupby attribute (apps having the same attribute value are grouped
  together in one box

[More common optional flags](common-flags)
[Diagram format arguments](format-diagram)

## Arguments

Args:
`<MODULE>` Input sysl file that contains the system specifications. e.g `simple.sysl`. The `.sysl` file type is optional.

## Examples

### Simple Sequence Diagram

Command line
```bash

> sysl sd -s "GroceryStore <- POST /checkout" GroceryStore.sysl -o checkout.png

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sysl sd -s "GroceryStore <- POST /checkout" -o checkout.png GroceryStore.sysl
```
